Add json rpc spec to searcher examples (#33)
jito-labs/searcher-examples: http.md

    - `commitment`: String. [Configure state commitment](#configuring-state-commitment). Default: `finalized`.
    - `encoding`: String (Default: "json"). Encoding for the returned Transaction. Possible values: json, base64, base58.

### Result

- `<null>`: If the bundle is not found.
- `<object>`: If the bundle is found, an object with the following fields:
  - `bundle_id`: `string`  a base-58/64 encoded string (required).
  - `slot_id`: `<u64>`  The slot this bundle was processed in.
  - `meta`: `<object|null>`: Transaction status metadata object:
    - `err`: `<object|null>`: Error if the transaction failed, null if the transaction succeeded/finalized.

### Code sample

### Request

```bash
curl http://localhost:8899 -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '
{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "id": 1,
    "method": "getBundle",
    "params": [
        "2nBhEBYYvfaAe16UMNqRHre4YNSskvuYgx3M6E4JP1oDYvZEJHvoPzyUidNgNX5r9sTyN1J9UxtbCXy2rqYcuyuv",
      {
            "commitment": "finalized"
      }
    ]
}
'
```

### Response

```json
{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": {
        "bundle_id": "3Eq21vXNB5s86c62bVuUfTeaMif1N2kUqRPBmGRJhyTA",

>         "slot": 1234,

Author: What transactions were processed in different slots?

>         "meta": {

Author: What other bundle details need to be exposed? Or are the states below sufficient?

# JSON RPC HTTP Methods

searcher nodes accept HTTP requests using the [JSON-RPC 2.0](https://www.jsonrpc.org/specification) specification.

## RPC HTTP Endpoint

> **Default port:** 8899 e.g. [http://localhost:8899](http://localhost:8899), [http://192.168.1.88:8899](http://192.168.1.88:8899)

Author: Is the port 8899 fine or should define something else?

Reviewer: 8899 is the default rpc port. it is also configurable

Reviewer 2: i think it'll be port 80/443

For preflight checks and transaction processing, Solana nodes choose which bank  
state to query based on a commitment requirement set by the client. The  
commitment describes how finalized a block is at that point in time. When  
querying the ledger state, it's recommended to use lower levels of commitment  
to report progress and higher levels to ensure the state will not be rolled back.

In descending order of commitment (most finalized to least finalized), clients  
may specify:

- `"finalized"` - the node will query the most recent block confirmed by supermajority  
  of the cluster as having reached maximum lockout, meaning the cluster has  
  recognized this block as finalized
- `"confirmed"` - the node will query the most recent block that has been voted on by supermajority of the cluster.
  - It incorporates votes from gossip and replay.
  - It does not count votes on descendants of a block, only direct votes on that block.
  - This confirmation level also upholds "optimistic confirmation" guarantees in  
    release 1.3 and onwards.
- `"processed"` - the node will query its most recent block. Note that the block  
  may still be skipped by the cluster.

> For processing many dependent transactions in series, it's recommended to use  

Author: Add the custom commitment level definition

        "ARTtviJkLLt6cHGQDydfo1Wyk6M4VGZdKZ2ZhdnJL336"
    ],
    "id": 1
}
```

## sendBundle

Submits a bundled list of signed transaction to the cluster for processing. The transactions will be processed in order and will be atomic meaning if at least one of the transactions fail, the bundle won’t be processed. It’s all or nothing. This method does not alter the transaction in any way; it relays the transaction created by clients to the node as-is. If the node's rpc service accepts the bundle, this method immediately succeeds, without waiting for any confirmations. A successful response from this method does not guarantee the transaction is processed or confirmed by the cluster.

### Parameters

None

### Result

The result field will be a JSON object with the following fields:

- `result`: `string` - A bundle id which is the ash of all the first signatures of the transactions in the bundle, which is used to identify the bundle as a base-58/64 encoded `string`

### Code sample

#### Request

```bash
curl http://localhost:8899 -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '
{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "id": 1,
    "method": "sendBundle",

>     "params": [

Reviewer 2: we might want to nest the bundles so you can attach other context to this like commitment, etc.

should look to see how other RPC endpoints handle nested list

        "6hXTCkRzt9WyecNzV1XPgCDfGAZzQKNxLXgynz5QDuWWPSAZBZSHptvWRL3BjCvzUXRdKvHL2b7yGrRQcWyaqsaBCncVG7BFggS8w9snUts67BSh3EqKpXLUm5UMHfD7ZBe9GhARjbNQMLJ1QD3Spr6oMTBU6EhdB4RD8CP2xUxr2u3d6fos36PD98XS6oX8TQjLpsMwncs5DAMiD4nNnR8NBfyghGCWvCVifVwvA8B8TJxE1aiyiv2L429BCWfyzAme5sZW8rDb14NeCQHhZbtNqfXhcp2tAnaAT",
        "7hXTCkRzt9WyecNzV1XPgCDfGAZzQKNxLXgynz5QDuWWPSAZBZSHptvWRL3BjCvzUXRdKvHL2b7yGrRQcWyaqsaBCncVG7BFggS8w9snUts67BSh3EqKpXLUm5UMHfD7ZBe9GhARjbNQMLJ1QD3Spr6oMTBU6EhdB4RD8CP2xUxr2u3d6fos36PD98XS6oX8TQjLpsMwncs5DAMiD4nNnR8NBfyghGCWvCVifVwvA8B8TJxE1aiyiv2L429BCWfyzAme5sZW8rDb14NeCQHhZbtNqfXhcp2tAnaAT"
    ]
}
'
```

#### Response

```json
{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": "2id3YC2jK9G5Wo2phDx4gJVAew8DcY5NAojnVuao8rkxwPYPe8cSwE5GzhEgJA2y8fVjDEo6iR6ykBvDxrTQrtpb",
    "id": 1
}
```

## getBundle

Returns bundle details for a submitted bundle

### Parameters

- `bundle_id`: `string`  a base-58/64 encoded string (required).
- `object` (optional)
  - Configuration object containing the following fields (optional):
    - `commitment`: String. [Configure state commitment](#configuring-state-commitment).

>     - `encoding`: String (Default: "json"). Encoding for the returned Transaction. Possible values: json, base64, base58.

Author: maybe limit to base64 everywhere?

### Result

- `<null>`: If the bundle is not found.
- `<object>`: If the bundle is found, an object with the following fields:
  - `bundle_id`: `string`  a base-58/64 encoded string (required).
  - `meta`: `<object|null>`: Transaction status metadata object:
    - `err`: `<object|null>`: Error if the transaction failed, null if the transaction succeeded/finalized.

### Code sample

```bash
curl http://localhost:8899 -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '
  {
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "id": 1,
    "method": "getTransaction",
    "params": [
      "2nBhEBYYvfaAe16UMNqRHre4YNSskvuYgx3M6E4JP1oDYvZEJHvoPzyUidNgNX5r9sTyN1J9UxtbCXy2rqYcuyuv",
      "json"
    ]
  }
'
```

### Code sample

### Request

```bash
curl http://localhost:8899 -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '
{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "id": 1,
    "method": "getBundle",
    "params": [
        "2nBhEBYYvfaAe16UMNqRHre4YNSskvuYgx3M6E4JP1oDYvZEJHvoPzyUidNgNX5r9sTyN1J9UxtbCXy2rqYcuyuv"
    ]
}
'
```

### Response

```json
{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": {
        "bundle_id": "3Eq21vXNB5s86c62bVuUfTeaMif1N2kUqRPBmGRJhyTA",
        "meta": {

>             "Accepted": {

Author: For finalized, currently its an empty message showing the bundle was successful. Do we need to add the slots the transactions were placed? (We don't do that in the current grpc api).

>             "accepted": {

Author: For finalized, currently its an empty message showing the bundle was successful. Do we need to add the slots the transactions were placed? (We don't do that in the current grpc api).

>             "accepted": {

Author: Would "forwarded" make more sense?

                "slot": 1234,
                "validator_identity": "validator123"
            }
        }
    },
    "id": 1
}
```

Sample error codes:

```json
{
    "results": [
        {

>             "accepted": {

Reviewer 2: i don't think it makes sense to expose this. returning this is a bug i think

- `value` : The value returned by the operation itself.

## Health Check

TODO

## JSON RPC API Reference

## getTipAccounts

Returns the tip accounts for tip payment for the bundles.

### Parameters

None

### Result

The result field will be a JSON object with the following fields:

- `result`: `<array>` - Tip accounts as a list of `strings`

### Code sample

#### Request

```bash
curl http://localhost:8899 -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '
  {
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "id": 1,
    "method": "getTipAccounts"
  }
'
```

#### Response

```json
{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": [
        "9n3d1K5YD2vECAbRFhFFGYNNjiXtHXJWn9F31t89vsAV",
        "aTtUk2DHgLhKZRDjePq6eiHRKC1XXFMBiSUfQ2JNDbN",
        "B1mrQSpdeMU9gCvkJ6VsXVVoYjRGkNA7TtjMyqxrhecH",
        "9ttgPBBhRYFuQccdR1DSnb7hydsWANoDsV3P9kaGMCEh",
        "4xgEmT58RwTNsF5xm2RMYCnR1EVukdK8a1i2qFjnJFu3",
        "EoW3SUQap7ZeynXQ2QJ847aerhxbPVr843uMeTfc9dxM",
        "E2eSqe33tuhAHKTrwky5uEjaVqnb2T9ns6nHHUrN8588",
        "ARTtviJkLLt6cHGQDydfo1Wyk6M4VGZdKZ2ZhdnJL336"
    ],
    "id": 1
}
```

## sendBundle

> Submits a bundled list of signed transaction to the cluster for processing. The transactions will be processed in order and will be atomic meaning if at least one of the transactions fail, the bundle won’t be processed. It’s all or nothing. This method does not alter the transaction in any way; it relays the transaction created by clients to the node as-is. If the node's rpc service accepts the bundle, this method immediately succeeds, without waiting for any confirmations. A successful response from this method does not guarantee the transaction is processed or confirmed by the cluster.

Reviewer: might be simpler (not sure if incorrect)
```suggestion
Submits a bundled list of signed transaction to the cluster for processing. The transactions will be atomically processed in order, meaning if any of the transactions fail, the entire bundle won’t be processed (all or nothing). This method does not alter the transaction in any way; it relays the transaction created by clients to the node as-is. If the node's rpc service accepts the bundle, this method immediately returns a success response acknowledging that the bundle has been received. This does not guarantee the transaction is processed or landed on-chain.
```

### Parameters

`<array[string]>`: `required` Fully-signed Transaction, as encoded string (base64).

### Result

The result field will be a JSON object with the following fields:

> - `result`: `<string>` - A bundle id which is the ash of all the first signatures of the transactions in the bundle, which is used to identify the bundle as a base-58/64 encoded `string`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `result`: `<string>` - A bundle id which is the hash of all the first signatures of the transactions in the bundle, which is used to identify the bundle as a base-58/64 encoded `string`
```

    "id": 1
}
```

## getBundleStatuses

Returns bundle statuses for submitted bundle(s)

### Parameters

- `<array[string]>`: `required` An array of bundle ids to confirm, as base-64 encoded strings (up to a maximum of 256).

encoding string optionalDefault: json

Encoding for the returned Transaction

### Result

An array of RpcResponse`<object>` consisting of either:
- `<null>`: If the bundle is not found.
- `<object>`: If the bundle is found, an object with the following fields:
  - `bundle`: `<object>` Bundle object in JSON format
    - signatures: `<array[string]>` - A list of base-64 encoded signatures applied by the bundle. The list will not be empty. The first one is used as the bundle id. The rest are the transaction ids which are part of the bundle.
  - `slot`: `<u64>`  The slot this bundle was processed in.
  - `confirmationStatus`: `<string|null>` - The bundle transaction's cluster confirmation status; Either processed, confirmed, or finalized. See [Commitment](#configuring-state-commitment) for more on optimistic confirmation.
  - `meta`: `<object|null>`: Transaction status metadata object:

>     - `err`: `<object|null>`: Error if the bundle failed, null if the bundle succeeded/finalized. The error reasons could be a bundle acceptance failure like not enough tips or failure of one the included transactions, for example blockhash expired. The transaction failure errors can be found at [Transaction errors](https://docs.rs/solana-sdk/latest/solana_sdk/transaction/enum.TransactionError.html#). If a transaction error, the transaction id will also be included to identify which transaction caused the failure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `err`: `<object|null>`: Error if the bundle failed, null if the bundle succeeded/finalized. The error reasons could be a bundle acceptance failure (eg. not enough tips) or failure of one the included transactions (eg.  blockhash expired). The transaction failure errors can be found at [Transaction errors](https://docs.rs/solana-sdk/latest/solana_sdk/transaction/enum.TransactionError.html#). If a transaction error occurred, the transaction id will also be included to identify which transaction caused the failure.
```

    "result": {
        "context": {
            "slot": 82
        },
        "value": [
            {
                "bundle": {
                    "signatures": [
                        "3Eq21vXNB5s86c62bVuUfTeaMif1N2kUqRPBmGRJhyTA",
                        "2nBhEBYYvfaAe16UMNqRHre4YNSskvuYgx3M6E4JP1oDYvZEJHvoPzyUidNgNX5r9sTyN1J9UxtbCXy2rqYcuyuv"
                    ]
                },
                "slot": 1234,
                "confirmationStatus": "finalized",
                "err": "null"
            }
        ]
    },
    "id": 1
}
```

Sample error codes:

```json
{
    "results": [
        {
            "err": {
                "code": -32002,
                "message": "Transaction simulation failed: Blockhash not found",
                "transaction": {
                    "signatures": [
                        "2nBhEBYYvfaAe16UMNqRHre4YNSskvuYgx3M6E4JP1oDYvZEJHvoPzyUidNgNX5r9sTyN1J9UxtbCXy2rqYcuyuv"
                        ]
                }
            }
        },
        {
            "err": {
                "code": -42000,
                "message": "Bundle failed: Not enough tips"
            }
        },
    ]
}

```

## getBundlesForAddress

> Returns signatures for confirmed bundles that include the given address in their accountKeys list. Returns signatures backwards in time from the provided signature or the most recent confirmed block.

Reviewer: Can you clarify the `backwards in time` bit? Is it sorted as oldest -> newest

Reviewer: seems like reverse-chronological order from below

### Parameters:

`<string>`: `required` Account address as a base-64 encoded string.

`<object>`: `optional` Configuration object containing the following fields:

- `commitment`: `<string>`, optional

> - `limit`: `<u16>` optional, default: 100: Maximum transaction signatures to return (between 1 and 1,000).

Reviewer: inclusive/exclusive?

### Result

An array of `<object>`, ordered from the newest to the oldest transaction, containing transaction signature information with the following fields:

- `signature`: `<string>` Transaction signature as a base-64 encoded string.
- `slot`: `<u64>` The slot that contains the block with the transaction.
- `err`: `<object|null>` Error if the bundle failed, null if the bundle succeeded. See [TransactionError definitions]((https://docs.rs/solana-sdk/latest/solana_sdk/transaction/enum.TransactionError.html#)) for more information if the included transactions failed. Otherwise if Bundle processing failed for other reasons, that would be provided.

> - `confirmationStatus`: `<string|null>` The bundle transaction's cluster confirmation status; Either processed, confirmed, or finalized. See Commitment for more on optimistic confirmation.

Reviewer: link to commitment levels

# JSON RPC HTTP Methods

> searcher nodes accept HTTP requests using the [JSON-RPC 2.0](https://www.jsonrpc.org/specification) specification.

Reviewer: searcher node -> block engine?

## RPC HTTP Endpoint

> **Default port:** 8899 e.g. [http://localhost:8899](http://localhost:8899), [http://192.168.1.88:8899](http://192.168.1.88:8899)

Reviewer 2: cc @jedleggett wrt the proxy rework being done right now.

## Request Formatting

> To make a JSON-RPC request, send an HTTP POST request with a `Content-Type: application/json` header. The JSON request data should contain 4 fields:

Reviewer: maybe just link to solana docs instead? https://docs.solana.com/api/http#request-formatting

- `id: <number>` - a unique client-generated identifying integer
- `method: <string>` - a string containing the method to be invoked
- `params: <array>` - a JSON array of ordered parameter values

Example using curl:

```bash
curl http://localhost:8899 -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d ' { "jsonrpc": "2.0", "id": 1, "method": "getBundleStatuses", "params": [ "bundle" ] }'
```

The response output will be a JSON object with the following fields:

- `jsonrpc: <string>` - matching the request specification
- `id: <number>` - matching the request identifier
- `result: <array|number|object|string>` - requested data or success confirmation

Requests can be sent in batches by sending an array of JSON-RPC request objects as the data for a single POST.

## Definitions

- Bundle: Bundles are a list of transactions that execute sequentially and atomically. “All or nothing” so to speak. This means that a user can send a bundle that contains multiple transactions and guarantee that they are all executed one after the other and the bundle succeeds only if all individual transactions succeed.
- Hash: A SHA-256 hash of a chunk of data.
- Pubkey: The public key of a Ed25519 key-pair.

> - Tip Account: List of accounts to which a tip can be paid for processing the bundles

Reviewer: should mention that searcher pays tip

  - It incorporates votes from gossip and replay.
  - It does not count votes on descendants of a block, only direct votes on that block.
  - This confirmation level also upholds "optimistic confirmation" guarantees in
    release 1.3 and onwards.
- `"processed"` - the node will query its most recent block. Note that the block
  may still be skipped by the cluster.

For processing many dependent transactions in series, it's recommended to use
`"confirmed"` commitment, which balances speed with rollback safety.
For total safety, it's recommended to use`"finalized"` commitment.

### Example

The commitment parameter should be included as the last element in the `params` array:

```bash
curl http://localhost:8899 -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d ' { "jsonrpc": "2.0", "id": 1, "method": "getBundleStatuses", "params": [ "bundle", { "commitment": "finalized" } ] }'
```

#### Default

If commitment configuration is not provided, the node will default to `"finalized"` commitment

Only methods that query bank state accept the commitment parameter. They are indicated in the API Reference below.

#### RpcResponse Structure

> Many methods that take a commitment parameter return an RpcResponse JSON object comprised of two parts:

Reviewer: link to docs.rs would be helpful

> - `context` : An RpcResponseContext JSON structure including a `slot` field at which the operation was evaluated.

Reviewer: Link to RpcResponseContext structure or docs.rs?

Author: This is the same as in https://docs.solana.com/api/http#rpcresponse-structure I used the notes relevant to us.
It's mostly telling that in some cases, we provide the context that provide a slot field and whatever value that is returned. Sort of like

`### Response

```json
{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": {
        "context": {
            "slot": 82
        },
        "value": [
            {
                "bundle": {
                    "signatures": [
                        "3Eq21vXNB5s86c62bVuUfTeaMif1N2kUqRPBmGRJhyTA",
                        "2nBhEBYYvfaAe16UMNqRHre4YNSskvuYgx3M6E4JP1oDYvZEJHvoPzyUidNgNX5r9sTyN1J9UxtbCXy2rqYcuyuv"
                    ]
                },
                "slot": 1234,
                "confirmationStatus": "finalized",
                "err": "null"
            }
        ]
    },
    "id": 1
}`

                        "2nBhEBYYvfaAe16UMNqRHre4YNSskvuYgx3M6E4JP1oDYvZEJHvoPzyUidNgNX5r9sTyN1J9UxtbCXy2rqYcuyuv"
                    ]
                },
                "slot": 1234,
                "confirmationStatus": "finalized",
                "err": "null"
            }
        ]
    },
    "id": 1
}
```

Sample error codes:

```json
{
    "results": [
        {
            "err": {
                "code": -32002,
                "message": "Transaction simulation failed: Blockhash not found",
                "transaction": {
                    "signatures": [
                        "2nBhEBYYvfaAe16UMNqRHre4YNSskvuYgx3M6E4JP1oDYvZEJHvoPzyUidNgNX5r9sTyN1J9UxtbCXy2rqYcuyuv"
                        ]
                }
            }
        },
        {
            "err": {
                "code": -42000,
                "message": "Bundle failed: Not enough tips"
            }
        },
    ]
}

```

## getBundlesForAddress
Returns signatures for confirmed bundles that include the given address in their accountKeys list. Returns signatures backwards in time from the provided signature or the most recent confirmed block.

### Parameters:

> `<string>`: `required` Account address as a base-64 encoded string.

Reviewer 2: addresses are typically base58... yeah i know its confusing lol

Author: Is bundle_id base-58 as well? transaction id is base-58
